Building and installing KDE Partition Manager from source
=========================================================


1. Dependencies

libparted: Either get it from http://www.gnu.org/software/parted/download.shtml
and build it yourself or, preferably, install your distribution's packages
(don't forget the dev-package).

libuuid: This is part of e2fsprogs, something you will most probably need
anyway. Get the source and build it from
http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=2406 or, preferably,
install your distribution's packages (again, don't forget the dev-package).

libblkid: Part of the util-linux-ng project available at
http://userweb.kernel.org/~kzak/util-linux-ng/.

KDE4: KDE 4.1 or earlier will not work. The minimum required version is 4.2.0.


2. Configure

KDE Partition Manager is built with cmake, like most of KDE4 today. It is
recommended to build out of tree: After unpacking the source, create a separate
build directory and run cmake there:

$ tar xfj partitionmanager-1.0.1.tar.bz2
$ cd partitionmanager-1.0.1
$ mkdir build
$ cd build
$ cmake ..

If all dependencies are met, cmake configures the build directory.

If you get an error message like "ERROR: Could not find KDE4 kde4-config" but
have KDE4 and its development packages installed, you might need to add the
KDE4 bin directory to the path.


3. Build and install

Just run make and make install in the build directory. The default install path
is /usr/local, so installing will need write privileges there. You can
configure a different install path by passing
-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=<your_path> to cmake when configuring. To change the
install path after configuring and building, run

$ ccmake .

in the build directory and modify CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX there.


4. Running

KDE Partition Manager should be run as root. Running it as an unprivileged user
does no harm, but you will not be allowed to apply any operations (i.e., you
can click through the UI, but cannot modify your disks).


5. Troubleshooting

If you are getting an error like this during the build:

index.docbook:71: parser error : Entity 'partman' not defined

there is a problem with a documentation file. This is easily fixed by
commenting out the offending language in doc/CMakeLists.txt -- the error
message should indicate which language causes the error. As an alternative, you
can disable building all documentation by commenting out the
macro_optional_add_subdirectory(doc) line in the toplevel CMakeLists.txt file.

